Hidden Markov Models (HMM) are a class of latent state models that have been extended and adapted to different types of data and problems. Here are some examples of variations of HMM, along with their general differences and similarities:
* Continuous-Observation HMM (COHMM): This variation of HMM is used when the observations are continuous instead of discrete. For example, in speech recognition, COHMM can be used to model the continuous speech signal. A COHMM is similar to a basic HMM in that it still has a set of hidden states and state transition probabilities, but the observation probabilities are modeled using continuous probability distributions such as Gaussian distributions.
* Gaussian Mixture HMM (GMHMM): This variation of HMM is used when the observations are continuous and are modeled using a mixture of Gaussian distributions. For example, in speech recognition, GMHMM can be used to model the different variations of speech sounds. A GMHMM is similar to a COHMM in that it also has a set of hidden states and state transition probabilities, but the observation probabilities are modeled using a mixture of Gaussian distributions.
* Hidden semi-Markov Model (HSMM): This variation of HMM is used when the duration of the hidden states is not fixed. For example, in speech recognition, HSMM can be used to model the different durations of speech sounds. An HSMM is similar to a basic HMM in that it still has a set of hidden states and state transition probabilities, but it also includes an additional set of probabilities known as the duration probabilities.
* Factorial HMM (FHMM): This variation of HMM is used when the observations are generated by multiple independent sources. For example, in speech recognition, FHMM can be used to model different sources of speech signals such as different speakers. A FHMM is similar to a basic HMM in that it still has a set of hidden states and state transition probabilities, but it also includes an additional set of probabilities known as the factor probabilities.
* Switching Linear Dynamical Systems (SLDS) : This variation of HMM is used when the observations are generated by a linear dynamical system that switches between different modes. For example, in speech recognition, SLDS can be used to model different modes of speech signals such as different dialects. A SLDS is similar to a basic HMM in that it still has a set of hidden states and state transition probabilities, but it also includes an additional set of probabilities known as the linear dynamical system parameters.
